Guide to integration testing with earthly (#326)
earthly/earthly: docs/guides/integration.md

```

{% sample lang="Unit Test" %}
``` scala
class DataVersionSpec extends FlatSpec {

  val dv = new DataVersion()
  "Data Version " should " be positive" in {
    assert(dv.version > 0)
  }
}
```
Output of running unit tests:
``` bash
> sbt test
[info] DataVersionSpec:
[info] Data Version
[info] - should be positive
[info] Run completed in 810 milliseconds.
[info] Total number of tests run: 1

```

{% sample lang="Integration Test" %}
Integration test:
``` scala
class DatabaseIntegrationTest extends FlatSpec {
  implicit val cs = IO.contextShift(ExecutionContext.global)

  val xa = Transactor.fromDriverManager[IO](
    "org.postgresql.Driver", 
    "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/iso3166", 
    "postgres",
    "postgres"
  )

  "An table" should "have country data" in {
    val dal = new DataAccessLayer()
    assert(dal.countries(5).transact(xa).unsafeRunSync.size == 5)
  }
}
```
Ouput:
``` bash
>sbt it:test
[info] DatabaseIntegrationTest:
[info] An table
[info] - should have country data
[info] Run completed in 2 seconds, 954 milliseconds.
[info] Total number of tests run: 1
```
{% endmethod %}

## The Earthfile

> We start with a simple earthly file that can build and create a docker file for our app. See [Basic](./basics) guide for more details on that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start with a simple Earthfile that can build and create a docker image for our app. See [Basic](./basics) guide for more details on that.
```

{% hint style='info' %}
##### Note

> This guide assumes you are using a docker image based on [docker:dind](https://hub.docker.com/_/docker) or have installed docker in docker into your base container. It is possible in the future that earthly will not require the dind for `WITH DOCKER` commands and at the time any base image will work successfully. 

Reviewer: Nit: Use `Docker` rather than `docker` (unless referring to the CLI tool specifically)?

# Integration Testing With Earthly

## Why a workflow for integration tests is important

> Running unit tests in a build pipeline is relatively simple.  By definition, unit tests have no external dependencies.  Things get more interesting when we want to test how our service integrates with other services and external systems.  A service may have dependencies on external file systems, on databases, on external message queues, or other services. An ergonomic and effective development environment should have simple ways to construct and run integration tests.  It should be easy to run these tests locally on the developer machine and in the build pipeline.  

Reviewer: Nit: We don't really do double-spaces anywhere else. Help maintain consistency?

## A Scenario

> Imagine this scenario: You work on a team that owns a service, that, in production runs containerized in a microservice environment.  The totality of the services that make-up production are too numerous reasonably run on a developer machine but thankfully your service only depends on a handful of other services.  You have unit tests but need ways to test your points of integration with your dependencies.  You also want ways to test your service externally, that is you want to exercise it in ways a service consumer might. 

Reviewer: Minor suggestion

```suggestion
Imagine this scenario: You work on a team that owns a service, that, in production runs containerized as part of a microservice architecture.  The totality of the services that make-up production are too numerous reasonably run on a developer machine but thankfully your service only depends on a handful of other services.  You have unit tests but need ways to test your points of integration with your dependencies.  You also want ways to test your service externally, that is you want to exercise it in ways a service consumer might. 
```

> Imagine this scenario: You work on a team that owns a service, that, in production runs containerized in a microservice environment.  The totality of the services that make-up production are too numerous reasonably run on a developer machine but thankfully your service only depends on a handful of other services.  You have unit tests but need ways to test your points of integration with your dependencies.  You also want ways to test your service externally, that is you want to exercise it in ways a service consumer might. 

Reviewer: `You also want ways to test your service externally, that is you want to exercise it in ways a service consumer might.`

I think we can use the term "end-to-end test" here.

Author: yeah, I think you are right.  I struggle here with the names of the testing approaches.  I think it could be argued that end to end testing would involve all the services that work together, not just this service and its dependencies, but not sure that distinction matters here.

> For simplicity's sake, this guide will use a scala application with a very simple set of dependencies.  In principle, these steps will work with any service whos dependencies can be specified in a docker-compose file. 

Reviewer: whos -> whose
scala -> Scala

```suggestion
For simplicity's sake, this guide will use a Scala application with a very simple set of dependencies.  In principle, these steps will work with any service whose dependencies can be specified in a docker-compose file.
```

## The Example App

The app has one purpose, it returns the first 5 countries alphabetically via standard out.  To do this it connects to a database through a data access layer and returns the results from a Postgres table.  The specifics of the app are not relevant to the testing method but are outlined here for clarity.

> The app has unit tests that don't require any dependencies and integration tests that exercise the data access layer and the connection to the database. 

Reviewer: Consider rephrasing to avoid double "and"?

```

{% sample lang="Unit Test" %}
``` scala
class DataVersionSpec extends FlatSpec {

  val dv = new DataVersion()
  "Data Version " should " be positive" in {
    assert(dv.version > 0)
  }
}
```
Output of running unit tests:
``` bash
> sbt test
[info] DataVersionSpec:
[info] Data Version
[info] - should be positive
[info] Run completed in 810 milliseconds.
[info] Total number of tests run: 1

```

{% sample lang="Integration Test" %}
Integration test:
``` scala
class DatabaseIntegrationTest extends FlatSpec {
  implicit val cs = IO.contextShift(ExecutionContext.global)

  val xa = Transactor.fromDriverManager[IO](
    "org.postgresql.Driver", 
    "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/iso3166", 
    "postgres",
    "postgres"
  )

  "An table" should "have country data" in {
    val dal = new DataAccessLayer()
    assert(dal.countries(5).transact(xa).unsafeRunSync.size == 5)
  }
}
```
Ouput:
``` bash
>sbt it:test
[info] DatabaseIntegrationTest:
[info] An table
[info] - should have country data
[info] Run completed in 2 seconds, 954 milliseconds.
[info] Total number of tests run: 1
```
{% endmethod %}

## The Earthfile

> We start with a simple earthly file that can build and create a docker file for our app.  See [Basic]() guide for more details on that.

Reviewer: Missing link here.

Note that there are multiple places below with missing links.

{% hint style='info' %}
##### Note

> This guide assumes you are using a docker image based on [docker:dind]() or have installed docker in docker into your base container.  It is possible in the future that earthly will not require the dind for `WITH DOCKER` commands and at the time any base image will work successfully.  

Reviewer: Missing link

=========================== SUCCESS ===========================
...
```

In more complex scenarios, this example could be extended to run tests against the service under test.  Making http calls and verifying outputs using your preferred testing framework.

## Bringing It All Together

Adding these testing targets to an all target, we now can unit test, integration test, and dockerize and push our software in a single command.  Using this approach, integration tests that fail sporadically for environmental reasons and can't be reproduced consistently should be a thing of the past.  

``` Dockerfile
all:
  BUILD +build
  BUILD +unit-test
  BUILD +integration-test
  BUILD +smoke-test
```

``` bash
> earth -P +all
...
+all | Target github.com/earthly/earthly-example-scala/integration:master+all built successfully
=========================== SUCCESS ===========================
```

There we have it, a reproducible integration process.  The full example can be found [here]().  If you have questions about the example, [ask them here](https://gitter.im/earthly-room/community)

## See also
* [Docker In Earthly](./docker-in-earthly.md)

> * [Source code for example](https://github.com/earthly/earthly-example-scala/tree/master/integration)

Reviewer: Should we move this into `earthly/earthly`?
